---
toc: true
layout: post
title: AP CSA Panel
description: Here are my notes and takeaways from the AP CSA Panel.
categories: [markdown]
tags: panel
---

## What I learned and Takeaways

The two speakers that came to our talk were Kathyleen Beveridge (project management) and Kris Porter (developer operation). Both speakers had lots of relevant experience in the technology industry, and they shared a lot about their journeys within the field. One thing that Ms. Beveridge pointed out was that all of the technology companies that she has worked at have had the common goal of making something that the world wants or needs. For example, at Thermo Fisher, her company is a biotechnology company that enables customers to make the world cleaner and safer. At HP and Qualcomm, both companies aimed to create technology that people love and can make life better for everyone. I can connect this to PBL because the projects that we are working on also relate to making the world a better place in some aspect. For example, in trimester 1, my team and I built a website that allows users to find safe places to travel to and the crime rates in their area. This technology can make the world a better place and many users can use this site for personal safety. My group also hopes to expand the number of users that use our site so that we can have an even greater impact on the general population. Another thing that stood out to me was how both speakers discussed the positive impact of knowing how to code in a variety of careers. For example, Ms. Beveridge discussed how knowing how to code helps you look at and think about problems differently. It also allows you to understand a methodical way of thinking. Both speakers also discussed the most important skills to have in a technology job. The two skills mentioned were adaptation and always learning. These skills are also used in our AP CSA class because we are always learning new things and we apply this knowledge into building our PBL projects. We also are constantly adapting to new issues and working with one another. Lastly, there are many skills that we are learning in class that apply to the real world in technology. For example, many skills/tools were referred through throughout the talk such as RapidAPI, DevOps, AWS, Gitlab, etc. Overall, I learned a lot about the technology industry through this panel and made many connections to the skills that we are learning in class.

## Notes

Kathyleen Beveridge

Born in Vietnam and came to CA
studied abroad in Spain
Santa Clara university bachelor's
Usc masters
Finance major and worked at Wells Fargo
Switched to high tech at HP (create tech that makes life better for everyone, every where)
Went and worked at high tech at Qualcomm (investing in tech the world loves)
Works at Thermo Fischer Scientific (enable customers to be cleaner and safer )
Everything makes something the world wants/needs
Tech for the good of the people
Investment banking was not her calling
All companies had a global impact on the world
Qualcomm chips are in 99% of all phones
1 billion people are impacted by Qualcomm tech everyday
Products made have a large impact in history
Thermo Fisher senior director in marketing/sales
Work closely with scrum master to bring products to market
Make a concept happen in the real world

Kris Porter

SRE, DevOps
Stem courses in high school
UCLA for electrical engineering
Masters in electrical at cal state la
Research at center for embedded network sensors (scans the environment and ai based on reading)
Learned Linux later and marketable skill
Got a job at a startup
Worked at NBC universal at streaming media infastructure
Worked at Qualcomm for 6 years
Works at Twitter (worked on timeline api on Twitter)
Doing things that are interesting (computer networking, ai/ml, data structures)
Streaming media infastructure for 2012 Olympics
Analytics Infrastructure Projects
Twitter projeds
Everything use to be rapid API in twitter now graph ul
Different companies use agile differently
Qualcomm all interacted with one another at big meetings
Good way to coordinate with other engineers
Work in sprints (couple months per project)
Because things can change over time (no point
Learn python, keras, tensor flow
Gitlab had 100000 repos by the time he left
Machine learning to find which repos to delete based on how many downloads there are
Predict harvest based on weather AI/ML
Most important skills aren continusous nlearning and don't be too concerned about what you read on the news/taking risks

Adaptation is most important skills
Best people: listen to the requirement and translate to how requirements can be made into tech
Aquistions (serial aqirer - Qualcomm)
Interviews are hard because you need to solve a new question on the spot

Work life balance is adaptive
Coding is a way of thinking and looking at a problem
Coding helps you think methodically
Interested in learning web3 and Blockchain tech
